# What is Symfony? 

Symfony is a PHP framework used to develop web application, APIs, microservices and web services

# Folder Structure:
- `bin`: Contains the executable files
- `config`: Contains all the configuration defined for any environment
- `public`: This is the document root. It holds all publicly accessible files, such as index.php, stylesheets, JavaScript files, and images. The index.php file is also called “front controller”.
- `src`: Contains all the Symfony-specific code (controllers and forms), your domain code (e.g., Doctrine classes) and all your business logic
- `templates`: Contains all the template files for the application
- `tests`: This houses the files for functional or unit test
- `translations`: Contains translation files for internationalization and localization
- `var`: Contains all the cache and log files generated by the application
- `vendor`: Contains all application dependencies installed by Composer

# Create project
```
composer create-project symfony/website-skeleton:<version> <project-name>
composer create-project symfony/skeleton:"6.2.*" <project-name>
```

# Few Bundles
```
symfony check:requirements
symfony new . --version="6.2.*"
composer require --dev maker
composer require --dev ormfixtures 
composer require --dev fakerphp/faker
composer require symfony/maker-bundle
composer require symfony/twig-bundle
composer require symfony/mailer
composer require symfony/google-mailer
composer require symfony/test-pack
composer require form validator
composer require security security-csrf annotations
composer require doctrine twig
composer require doctrine/annotations
```

# Console commands
```
symfony console make:entity <entity-name>
symfony console make:migration
symfony console make:fixture <fixture-name>
symfony console make:controller <controller-name>
symfony console make:crud <project-name>
symfony console make:user
symfony console make:auth
symfony console make:registration
symfony server:start --no-tls
```

# Doctrine commands
```
symfony console doctrine:database:create
symfony console doctrine:migrations:migrate
symfony console doctrine:schema:update --force
symfony console doctrine:fixtures:load
symfony console doctrine:fixtures:load --purge-with-truncate
```

```
php -S localhost:8000 -t public/
php bin/console doctrine:query:sql 'SELECT * FROM user'
php bin/console debug:router
php bin/console debug:autowiring
```

# REST API

REST stands for representational state transfer and API stand for application programming interface. 
RESTful API is a type of API that uses the REST architectural style, an API is uses REST if it has this characteristics:

`Client-Server` – The communication between Client and Server.
`Stateless` – After the server completed a http request, no session information is retained on the server.
`Cacheable` – Response from the server can be cacheable or non cacheable.
`Uniform Interface` – This are the constraints that simplify things. The constraints are Identification of the resources, resource manipulation through representations, self-descriptive messages, hypermedia as the engine of application state.
`Layered System` – These are intermediaries between client and server like proxy servers, cache servers, etc.
`Code on Demand`(Optional) – This is optional, the ability of the server to send executable codes to the client like java applets or JavaScript code, etc.
